# Analysis-of-Honey-Production-in-the-United-States
My second Python project placed a strong emphasis on data visualization, making extensive use of Python's visualization libraries.

Source Credit : https://www.kaggle.com/jessicali9530/honey-production

Context of the project 
In 2006, global concern was raised over the rapid decline in the honeybee population, an integral component to American honey agriculture. Large numbers of hives were lost to Colony Collapse Disorder, a phenomenon of disappearing worker bees causing the remaining hive colony to collapse. Speculation to the cause of this disorder points to hive diseases and pesticides harming the pollinators, though no overall consensus has been reached. Twelve years later, some industries are observing recovery but the American honey industry is still largely struggling. The U.S. used to locally produce over half the honey it consumes per year. Now, honey mostly comes from overseas, with 350 of the 400 million pounds of honey consumed every year originating from imports. This dataset provides insight into honey production supply and demand in America by state from 1998 to 2012.

Content of the data set
The National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS) is the primary data reporting body for the US Department of Agriculture (USDA). NASS's mission is to "provide timely, accurate, and useful statistics in service to U.S. agriculture". From datasets to census surveys, their data covers virtually all aspects of U.S. agriculture. Honey production is one of the datasets offered. Click here for the original page containing the data along with related datasets such as Honey Bee Colonies and Cost of Pollination. Data wrangling was performed in order to clean the dataset. honeyproduction.csv is the final tidy dataset suitable for analysis. The three other datasets (which include "honeyraw" in the title) are the original raw data downloaded from the site. They are uploaded to this page along with the "Wrangling The Honey Production Dataset" kernel as an example to show users how data can be wrangled into a cleaner format.
